# Exploring the Nexus of Gender, Ingroup Loyalty, and Parasocial Relationships
The data collection and modelling of my dissertation work 



## Key links
Full OSF Link: https://osf.io/vkfd6/?view_only=356fa6a769104493aec84fe2de76a793
As predicted: https://aspredicted.org/see_one.php <br> 

## Abstract
The digital landscape has transformed in-person gaming communities into dynamic socio-technological structures that foster social interaction, collaborative gameplay, and the exchange of information. In parallel, the rise of gaming spectatorship through platforms like Twitch and YouTube Gaming has introduced a new dimension to gaming culture, where viewers engage with gaming streamers in real-time and form tight-knit communities around them. Unlike the distant and fleeting unidirectional parasocial relationships (PSR) often observed as a consequence of repeated exposure celebrities, streamers are forging unique "one-and-a-half-way" connections with their viewers characterized by emotional engagement, community affiliation, and fandom. This phenomenon is enabled by the opportunity for reciprocal interaction provided by social media and streaming platforms.

By introducing a computational method for quantifying parasocial interactions (PSI), this dissertation aims to expand the scope of research on PSRs to data collected from social media, given the current PSR literature relies solely on self-report measures. It seeks to investigate whether this novel type of PSR observed with streamers predicts heightened engagement within their communities on Reddit by exploring the relationship between parasocial language use and Reddit’s metrics of engagement. It also explores potential differences in engagement predictability of parasocial language between subreddits focused on male and female streamers, considering existing literature suggesting gender-based variations in gaming preferences, motivations, and the formation of PSRs.
The study gathered 17,430 comments from 5,600 speakers across 10 subreddit communities dedicated to male and female gaming streamers. A binary parasocial language classifier was trained on a subset of 4,000 posts from this sample to distinguish utterances containing parasocial language and to classify the remaining dataset. Log-linear regression analyses were conducted to assess the impact of parasocial language use on engagement with posts, while controlling for attributes of each comment, such as whether it was pinned, a direct reply to the main post, or posted by a moderator. Further log-linear regression analyses were performed to explore gender-based variations in engagement. Linear mixed models were also conducted as a robustness test, controlling for differences across subreddits and user IDs.
The findings of the study reveal a significant positive association between parasocial language use and engagement within gaming celebrity subreddits, indicating that PSI plays a significant role in driving engagement within streamer subreddits. The study also found a significant negative association between engagement and parasocial language use was observed in female streamer-centered subreddits. However, after accounting for the effects of individual differences and nuances between subreddits using a linear mixed effects model, a significant positive association emerged. This indicates that the influence of parasocial language on engagement dynamics within male and female streamer communities is more complex and context-dependent than initially observed, as it can fluctuate based on factors like subreddit attributes and individual user disparities.

Ultimately, this dissertation aims to investigate whether PSRs with gaming streamers sufficiently fulfill social desires for interaction, as reflected in heightened parasocial interaction within their communities on Reddit. It introduces a computational approach to measuring parasocial interaction and lays the groundwork for future studies exploring these dynamics across diverse media platforms, games, and levels of reality experiences.
 

